cheat-sheets/css.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 9
sidebar_label: 'CSS Cheat Sheet'
id: css-cheat-sheet
description: "A quick reference guide for CSS"
slug: /css-cheat-sheet
tags:
- CSS
- Cheat sheet
- Reference
- Quick guide
- Styling
- Front-end development
- Web design
- HTML/CSS
- Best practices
- Snippets
---

# CSS Cheat Sheet

## Box Model

- `width`: Specifies the width of an element
- `height`: Specifies the height of an element
- `padding`: Specifies the padding inside an element
- `border`: Specifies a border around an element
- `margin`: Specifies the margin outside an element

## Text

- `font-family`: Specifies the font for text
- `font-size`: Specifies the size of text
- `color`: Specifies the color of text
- `text-align`: Specifies the horizontal alignment of text
- `text-decoration`: Specifies the text decoration (underline, overline, line-through)

## Background

- `background-color`: Specifies the background color of an element
- `background-image`: Specifies a background image for an element
- `background-repeat`: Specifies if a background image should repeat or not
- `background-attachment`: Specifies if a background image is fixed or scrolls with the rest of the page

## Display

- `display`: Specifies how an element should be displayed (inline, block, inline-block, none)
- `visibility`: Specifies if an element is visible or hidden

## Flexbox

- `display: flex`: Specifies that an element is a flex container
- `flex-direction`: Specifies the direction of the flex items (row, row-reverse, column, column-reverse)
- `justify-content`: Specifies how the flex items are aligned along the main axis (flex-start, flex-end, center, space-between, space-around)
- `align-items`: Specifies how the flex items are aligned along the cross axis (flex-start, flex-end, center, baseline, stretch)

## Positioning

- `position`: Specifies the type of positioning for an element (static, relative, absolute, fixed)
- `top`: Specifies the distance of an element from the top of its containing element
- `bottom`: Specifies the distance of an element from the bottom of its containing element
- `left`: Specifies the distance of an element from the left of its containing element
- `right`: Specifies the distance of an element from the right of its containing element

## Transforms

- `transform`: Specifies the transformation to be applied to an element
- `translate`: Specifies the translation (movement) of an element in the x and y axis
- `rotate`: Specifies the rotation of an element
- `scale`: Specifies the scaling of an element in the x and y axis
- `skew`: Specifies the skewing of an element in the x and y axis

## Transitions

- `transition`: Specifies the transition effect for an element
- `transition-property`: Specifies the CSS property to which the transition effect should be applied
- `transition-duration`: Specifies the duration of the transition effect
- `transition-timing-function`: Specifies the speed curve of the transition effect
- `transition-delay`: Specifies the delay before the transition effect starts

## Animations

- `animation`: Specifies the animation for an element
- `animation-name`: Specifies the name of the @keyframes animation
- `animation-duration`: Specifies the duration of the animation
- `animation-timing-function`: Specifies the speed curve of the animation
- `animation-delay`: Specifies the delay before the animation starts
- `animation-iteration-count`: Specifies the number of times the animation should run
- `animation-direction`: Specifies the direction of the animation (normal, reverse, alternate, alternate-reverse)

## Border

- `border-width`: Specifies the width of an element's border
- `border-style`: Specifies the style of an element's border (solid, dotted, dashed, double, groove, ridge, inset, outset)
- `border-color`: Specifies the color of an element's border
- `border-radius`: Specifies the rounding of an element's corners

## Shadows

- `box-shadow`: Specifies a shadow for an element
- `text-shadow`: Specifies a shadow for text

## Typography

- `line-height`: Specifies the height of a line of text
- `letter-spacing`: Specifies the spacing between characters in text
- `word-spacing`: Specifies the spacing between words in text
- `text-transform`: Specifies the capitalization of text (none, capitalize, uppercase, lowercase)

## Lists

- `list-style`: Specifies the style of a list (disc, circle, square, none)
- `list-style-position`: Specifies the position of the list marker (inside, outside)
- `list-style-image`: Specifies an image as the list marker

## Tables

- `border-collapse`: Specifies whether table borders should be collapsed into a single border or separated
- `border-spacing`: Specifies the distance between the borders of adjacent cells
- `caption-side`: Specifies the position of the table caption (top, bottom)
- `empty-cells`: Specifies whether or not to display borders and backgrounds for empty cells in a table

## Flexbox

- `display: flex`: Specifies that an element should be displayed as a flex container
- `flex-direction`: Specifies the direction of the main axis of a flex container (row, row-reverse, column, column-reverse)
- `flex-wrap`: Specifies whether flex items should wrap or not (nowrap, wrap, wrap-reverse)
- `flex-flow`: Shorthand property for `flex-direction` and `flex-wrap`
- `justify-content`: Specifies the alignment of flex items along the main axis (flex-start, flex-end, center, space-between, space-around)
- `align-items`: Specifies the alignment of flex items along the cross axis (flex-start, flex-end, center, baseline, stretch)
- `align-content`: Specifies the alignment of a flex container's lines within the flex container when there is extra space along the cross axis (flex-start, flex-end, center, space-between, space-around, stretch)

## Grid

- `display: grid`: Specifies that an element should be displayed as a grid container
- `grid-template-columns`: Specifies the size and number of columns in a grid
- `grid-template-rows`: Specifies the size and number of rows in a grid
- `grid-template-areas`: Specifies named grid areas
- `grid-column-gap`: Specifies the size of the gap between columns in a grid
- `grid-row-gap`: Specifies the size of the gap between rows in a grid
- `grid-gap`: Shorthand property for `grid-column-gap` and `grid-row-gap`
- `justify-items`: Specifies the alignment of grid items along the row axis (start, end, center, stretch)
- `align-items`: Specifies the alignment of grid items along the column axis (start, end, center, stretch)
- `justify-content`: Specifies the alignment of grid items along the row axis within the grid area (start, end, center space-between, space-around)
- `align-content`: Specifies the alignment of grid items along the column axis within the grid area (start, end, center, space-between, space-around, stretch)

## Text

- `text-align`: Specifies the horizontal alignment of text (left, right, center, justify)
- `text-decoration`: Specifies the decoration of text (none, underline, overline, line-through, blink)
- `text-indent`: Specifies the indentation of the first line of text in a block
- `text-shadow`: Specifies a shadow for text
- `text-transform`: Specifies the capitalization of text (none, capitalize, uppercase, lowercase)
- `vertical-align`: Specifies the vertical alignment of an inline-level element in a line box (baseline, text-top, middle, text-bottom, super, sub)
- `white-space`: Specifies how white space inside an element should be handled (normal, pre, nowrap, pre-wrap, pre-line)

## Backgrounds

- `background`: Specifies all the background-related properties in one line of code
- `background-color`: Specifies the background color of an element
- `background-image`: Specifies an image as the background of an element
- `background-repeat`: Specifies if and how a background image should repeat (repeat, repeat-x, repeat-y, no-repeat)
- `background-attachment`: Specifies whether a background image should be fixed or scroll with the rest of the page (scroll, fixed)
- `background-position`: Specifies the position of a background image (top, bottom, left, right, center)

## Borders

- `border`: Specifies a border for an element
- `border-width`: Specifies the width of a border
- `border-style`: Specifies the style of a border (solid, dotted, dashed, double, groove, ridge, inset, outset)
- `border-color`: Specifies the color of a border
- `border-top`, `border-right`, `border-bottom`, `border-left`: Specifies the width, style, and color of a border for each individual side of an element
- `border-radius`: Specifies the rounding of the corners of a border

## Dimensions

- `width`: Specifies the width of an element
- `height`: Specifies the height of an element
- `max-width`: Specifies the maximum width of an element
- `max-height`: Specifies the maximum height of an element
- `min-width`: Specifies the minimum width of an element
- `min-height`: Specifies the minimum height of an element

## Margins

- `margin`: Specifies the margin of an element (can be set for all sides with one property, or for each side individually with `margin-top`, `margin-right`, `margin-bottom`, `margin-left`)
- `auto`: Lets the browser calculate the margin

## Padding

- `padding`: Specifies the padding of an element (can be set for all sides with one property, or for each side individually with `padding-top`, `padding-right`, `padding-bottom`, `padding-left`)

## Miscellaneous

- `opacity`: Specifies the opacity of an element
- `overflow`: Specifies what to do if content overflows an element's box (visible, hidden, scroll, auto)
- `cursor`: Specifies the type of cursor to be displayed (default, pointer, auto, etc.)
- `transition`: Specifies the transition effect for an element to change from one style to another (property, duration, timing-function, delay)
- `transform`: Specifies a two-dimensional transformation for an element (scale, rotate, translate, skew)

Commit message:

Changed CSS Cheat Sheet Description

cheat-sheets/css.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 9
sidebar_label: 'CSS Cheat Sheet'
id: css-cheat-sheet
description: "Get up to speed with CSS fast. A comprehensive CSS cheat sheet for web developers."
slug: /css-cheat-sheet
tags:
- CSS
- Cheat sheet
- Reference
- Quick guide
- Styling
- Front-end development
- Web design
- HTML/CSS
- Best practices
- Snippets
---

# CSS Cheat Sheet

## Box Model

- `width`: Specifies the width of an element
- `height`: Specifies the height of an element
- `padding`: Specifies the padding inside an element
- `border`: Specifies a border around an element
- `margin`: Specifies the margin outside an element

## Text

- `font-family`: Specifies the font for text
- `font-size`: Specifies the size of text
- `color`: Specifies the color of text
- `text-align`: Specifies the horizontal alignment of text
- `text-decoration`: Specifies the text decoration (underline, overline, line-through)

## Background

- `background-color`: Specifies the background color of an element
- `background-image`: Specifies a background image for an element
- `background-repeat`: Specifies if a background image should repeat or not
- `background-attachment`: Specifies if a background image is fixed or scrolls with the rest of the page

## Display

- `display`: Specifies how an element should be displayed (inline, block, inline-block, none)
- `visibility`: Specifies if an element is visible or hidden

## Flexbox

- `display: flex`: Specifies that an element is a flex container
- `flex-direction`: Specifies the direction of the flex items (row, row-reverse, column, column-reverse)
- `justify-content`: Specifies how the flex items are aligned along the main axis (flex-start, flex-end, center, space-between, space-around)
- `align-items`: Specifies how the flex items are aligned along the cross axis (flex-start, flex-end, center, baseline, stretch)

## Positioning

- `position`: Specifies the type of positioning for an element (static, relative, absolute, fixed)
- `top`: Specifies the distance of an element from the top of its containing element
- `bottom`: Specifies the distance of an element from the bottom of its containing element
- `left`: Specifies the distance of an element from the left of its containing element
- `right`: Specifies the distance of an element from the right of its containing element

## Transforms

- `transform`: Specifies the transformation to be applied to an element
- `translate`: Specifies the translation (movement) of an element in the x and y axis
- `rotate`: Specifies the rotation of an element
- `scale`: Specifies the scaling of an element in the x and y axis
- `skew`: Specifies the skewing of an element in the x and y axis

## Transitions

- `transition`: Specifies the transition effect for an element
- `transition-property`: Specifies the CSS property to which the transition effect should be applied
- `transition-duration`: Specifies the duration of the transition effect
- `transition-timing-function`: Specifies the speed curve of the transition effect
- `transition-delay`: Specifies the delay before the transition effect starts

## Animations

- `animation`: Specifies the animation for an element
- `animation-name`: Specifies the name of the @keyframes animation
- `animation-duration`: Specifies the duration of the animation
- `animation-timing-function`: Specifies the speed curve of the animation
- `animation-delay`: Specifies the delay before the animation starts
- `animation-iteration-count`: Specifies the number of times the animation should run
- `animation-direction`: Specifies the direction of the animation (normal, reverse, alternate, alternate-reverse)

## Border

- `border-width`: Specifies the width of an element's border
- `border-style`: Specifies the style of an element's border (solid, dotted, dashed, double, groove, ridge, inset, outset)
- `border-color`: Specifies the color of an element's border
- `border-radius`: Specifies the rounding of an element's corners

## Shadows

- `box-shadow`: Specifies a shadow for an element
- `text-shadow`: Specifies a shadow for text

## Typography

- `line-height`: Specifies the height of a line of text
- `letter-spacing`: Specifies the spacing between characters in text
- `word-spacing`: Specifies the spacing between words in text
- `text-transform`: Specifies the capitalization of text (none, capitalize, uppercase, lowercase)

## Lists

- `list-style`: Specifies the style of a list (disc, circle, square, none)
- `list-style-position`: Specifies the position of the list marker (inside, outside)
- `list-style-image`: Specifies an image as the list marker

## Tables

- `border-collapse`: Specifies whether table borders should be collapsed into a single border or separated
- `border-spacing`: Specifies the distance between the borders of adjacent cells
- `caption-side`: Specifies the position of the table caption (top, bottom)
- `empty-cells`: Specifies whether or not to display borders and backgrounds for empty cells in a table

## Flexbox

- `display: flex`: Specifies that an element should be displayed as a flex container
- `flex-direction`: Specifies the direction of the main axis of a flex container (row, row-reverse, column, column-reverse)
- `flex-wrap`: Specifies whether flex items should wrap or not (nowrap, wrap, wrap-reverse)
- `flex-flow`: Shorthand property for `flex-direction` and `flex-wrap`
- `justify-content`: Specifies the alignment of flex items along the main axis (flex-start, flex-end, center, space-between, space-around)
- `align-items`: Specifies the alignment of flex items along the cross axis (flex-start, flex-end, center, baseline, stretch)
- `align-content`: Specifies the alignment of a flex container's lines within the flex container when there is extra space along the cross axis (flex-start, flex-end, center, space-between, space-around, stretch)

## Grid

- `display: grid`: Specifies that an element should be displayed as a grid container
- `grid-template-columns`: Specifies the size and number of columns in a grid
- `grid-template-rows`: Specifies the size and number of rows in a grid
- `grid-template-areas`: Specifies named grid areas
- `grid-column-gap`: Specifies the size of the gap between columns in a grid
- `grid-row-gap`: Specifies the size of the gap between rows in a grid
- `grid-gap`: Shorthand property for `grid-column-gap` and `grid-row-gap`
- `justify-items`: Specifies the alignment of grid items along the row axis (start, end, center, stretch)
- `align-items`: Specifies the alignment of grid items along the column axis (start, end, center, stretch)
- `justify-content`: Specifies the alignment of grid items along the row axis within the grid area (start, end, center space-between, space-around)
- `align-content`: Specifies the alignment of grid items along the column axis within the grid area (start, end, center, space-between, space-around, stretch)

## Text

- `text-align`: Specifies the horizontal alignment of text (left, right, center, justify)
- `text-decoration`: Specifies the decoration of text (none, underline, overline, line-through, blink)
- `text-indent`: Specifies the indentation of the first line of text in a block
- `text-shadow`: Specifies a shadow for text
- `text-transform`: Specifies the capitalization of text (none, capitalize, uppercase, lowercase)
- `vertical-align`: Specifies the vertical alignment of an inline-level element in a line box (baseline, text-top, middle, text-bottom, super, sub)
- `white-space`: Specifies how white space inside an element should be handled (normal, pre, nowrap, pre-wrap, pre-line)

## Backgrounds

- `background`: Specifies all the background-related properties in one line of code
- `background-color`: Specifies the background color of an element
- `background-image`: Specifies an image as the background of an element
- `background-repeat`: Specifies if and how a background image should repeat (repeat, repeat-x, repeat-y, no-repeat)
- `background-attachment`: Specifies whether a background image should be fixed or scroll with the rest of the page (scroll, fixed)
- `background-position`: Specifies the position of a background image (top, bottom, left, right, center)

## Borders

- `border`: Specifies a border for an element
- `border-width`: Specifies the width of a border
- `border-style`: Specifies the style of a border (solid, dotted, dashed, double, groove, ridge, inset, outset)
- `border-color`: Specifies the color of a border
- `border-top`, `border-right`, `border-bottom`, `border-left`: Specifies the width, style, and color of a border for each individual side of an element
- `border-radius`: Specifies the rounding of the corners of a border

## Dimensions

- `width`: Specifies the width of an element
- `height`: Specifies the height of an element
- `max-width`: Specifies the maximum width of an element
- `max-height`: Specifies the maximum height of an element
- `min-width`: Specifies the minimum width of an element
- `min-height`: Specifies the minimum height of an element

## Margins

- `margin`: Specifies the margin of an element (can be set for all sides with one property, or for each side individually with `margin-top`, `margin-right`, `margin-bottom`, `margin-left`)
- `auto`: Lets the browser calculate the margin

## Padding

- `padding`: Specifies the padding of an element (can be set for all sides with one property, or for each side individually with `padding-top`, `padding-right`, `padding-bottom`, `padding-left`)

## Miscellaneous

- `opacity`: Specifies the opacity of an element
- `overflow`: Specifies what to do if content overflows an element's box (visible, hidden, scroll, auto)
- `cursor`: Specifies the type of cursor to be displayed (default, pointer, auto, etc.)
- `transition`: Specifies the transition effect for an element to change from one style to another (property, duration, timing-function, delay)
- `transform`: Specifies a two-dimensional transformation for an element (scale, rotate, translate, skew)
