cheat-sheets/git.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 6
sidebar_label: 'Git Cheat Sheet'
id: git-cheat-sheet
description: "A comprehensive reference guide for Git commands, both basic and advanced."
slug: /git-cheat-sheet
tags:
- Cheat Sheet
- Git
- Versioning
- Shortcuts
---

# Git - Cheat Sheet

A comprehensive reference guide for Git commands, both basic and advanced.

## Basic Commands

| Command                   | Description                                         |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `git init`                | Initialize a local Git repository                   |
| `git clone`               | Create a local copy of a remote repository          |
| `git add`                 | Add a file to the staging area                      |
| `git commit -m "message"` | Commit the staged changes with a message            |
| `git push`                | Push the committed changes to the remote repository |
| `git pull`                | Pull the latest changes from the remote repository  |
| `git status`              | Check the status of the repository                  |

## Branching

|         Command          |                         Description                         |
|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| `git branch`             | List all local branches                                     |
| `git branch <branch>`    | Create a new branch                                         |
| `git checkout <branch>`  | Switch to a different branch                                |
| `git merge <branch>`     | Merge a branch into the current branch                      |
| `git branch -d <branch>` | Delete a branch                                             |
| `git pull`               | Ziehen der letzten Änderungen aus dem entfernten Repository |
| `git status`             | Status des Repositorys prüfen                               |

## Advanced Commands

| Command                    | Description                                                     |
|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| `git stash`                | Stash the changes in a dirty working directory                  |
| `git log`                  | View the commit history                                         |
| `git diff`                 | View the changes between commits, commit and working tree, etc. |
| `git reset <file>`         | Unstage a file                                                  |
| `git cherry-pick <commit>` | Apply the changes from a specific commit                        |
| `git rebase <branch>`      | Rebase the current branch onto another branch                   |

Commit message:

Updated git Cheat Sheet Description

cheat-sheets/git.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 6
sidebar_label: 'Git Cheat Sheet'
id: git-cheat-sheet
description: "A comprehensive reference guide for Git commands, both basic and advanced."
slug: /git-cheat-sheet
tags:
- Cheat Sheet
- Git
- Versioning
- Shortcuts
---

# Git - Cheat Sheet

Welcome to Git - Cheat Sheet! Here you'll find all the important Git commands, compact and clear. Whether you're a beginner or a pro, everything you need for the perfect overview is here. This way, you'll always have your repository under control!

## Basic Commands

| Command                   | Description                                         |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `git init`                | Initialize a local Git repository                   |
| `git clone`               | Create a local copy of a remote repository          |
| `git add`                 | Add a file to the staging area                      |
| `git commit -m "message"` | Commit the staged changes with a message            |
| `git push`                | Push the committed changes to the remote repository |
| `git pull`                | Pull the latest changes from the remote repository  |
| `git status`              | Check the status of the repository                  |

## Branching

|         Command          |                         Description                         |
|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| `git branch`             | List all local branches                                     |
| `git branch <branch>`    | Create a new branch                                         |
| `git checkout <branch>`  | Switch to a different branch                                |
| `git merge <branch>`     | Merge a branch into the current branch                      |
| `git branch -d <branch>` | Delete a branch                                             |
| `git pull`               | Ziehen der letzten Änderungen aus dem entfernten Repository |
| `git status`             | Status des Repositorys prüfen                               |

## Advanced Commands

| Command                    | Description                                                     |
|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| `git stash`                | Stash the changes in a dirty working directory                  |
| `git log`                  | View the commit history                                         |
| `git diff`                 | View the changes between commits, commit and working tree, etc. |
| `git reset <file>`         | Unstage a file                                                  |
| `git cherry-pick <commit>` | Apply the changes from a specific commit                        |
| `git rebase <branch>`      | Rebase the current branch onto another branch                   |
