cheat-sheets/intro.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: 'Introduction'
id: intro
description: Welcome to Cheat Sheets!
slug: /intro
---

# Welcome to Cheat Sheets!

We know that working in the field of information technology can be fast-paced and challenging, which is why we've created this platform as a quick reference for technical information and resources.

Our website contains a variety of cheat sheets on topics such as networking, programming, and more. These cheat sheets are designed to provide a concise overview of key concepts and techniques, so you can quickly access the information you need when you need it.

In addition to the cheat sheets we have already published, we invite users to contribute their own content through [GitHub](https://github.com/datenschmutz/docs). This means that anyone with knowledge and expertise in a particular area can help add to our collection of resources, making our website even more comprehensive and up-to-date.

We hope you'll find our IT cheat sheet website to be a valuable resource for your learning and development. We look forward to seeing your contributions and helping to build a community of knowledge and collaboration.

## Hint

We are just starting with this site. So not yet everything is in place right now. We are working on it. Please participate and share your knowlegde e.g. for tools not covered, errors or improvements.

Feel free to give us feedback about this page on [GitHub](https://github.com/datenschmutz/documentation/issues) and to participate via the `Edit this page` links on each page or directly via [GitHub](https://github.com/datenschmutz/docs).

Commit message:

Updated Cheat Sheet Intro description

cheat-sheets/intro.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: 'Introduction'
id: intro
description: Our IT cheat sheet platform offers concise technical information and resources for a fast-paced and challenging industry. With user contributions through GitHub, it aims to become a comprehensive, up-to-date resource for learning and development. Join our community of knowledge and collaboration.
slug: /intro
---

# Welcome to Cheat Sheets!

We know that working in the field of information technology can be fast-paced and challenging, which is why we've created this platform as a quick reference for technical information and resources.

Our website contains a variety of cheat sheets on topics such as networking, programming, and more. These cheat sheets are designed to provide a concise overview of key concepts and techniques, so you can quickly access the information you need when you need it.

In addition to the cheat sheets we have already published, we invite users to contribute their own content through [GitHub](https://github.com/datenschmutz/docs). This means that anyone with knowledge and expertise in a particular area can help add to our collection of resources, making our website even more comprehensive and up-to-date.

We hope you'll find our IT cheat sheet website to be a valuable resource for your learning and development. We look forward to seeing your contributions and helping to build a community of knowledge and collaboration.

## Hint

We are just starting with this site. So not yet everything is in place right now. We are working on it. Please participate and share your knowlegde e.g. for tools not covered, errors or improvements.

Feel free to give us feedback about this page on [GitHub](https://github.com/datenschmutz/documentation/issues) and to participate via the `Edit this page` links on each page or directly via [GitHub](https://github.com/datenschmutz/docs).
